*The text below describes a project idea that I'd like to see tested. I do not intend to work on this anytime soon.*

The goal of this project is to provide guided retrieval practice for educational resources.

In a larger context, the goal is to make free online learning more effective. There are already many high quality educational resources in text or video form. Those are great for providing information. However, they have limited success in making sure that the learners will actually learn and remember the material. Research shows that retrieval practice is more effective than rewatching and rereading. Retrieval practice focusses on getting information out of the students heads, by letting them answer questions. Therefore, providing quizzes for existing educational content can improve the probability of learning success.

Every quiz corresponds to a particular learning resource such as a video or blog post. Users can find quiz questions for a resource by pasting the link into some search box. Usually, it should be possible to answer all questions in a quiz just using the corresponding resource. Every exception to this rule should be marked as such.

Different types of quiz questions are possible. Flash-card style questions show the question and reveal the answer when the user wants to see it. Multiple-choice questions show a question along with multiple possible answers of which one more more are correct. Another kind of question can ask the user to input a word and number. Which of these question style works best, depends on the information that is learned.

A small team is not capable of providing quiz questions for a significant amount of existing resources. Furthermore, it cannot be expected that a significant amount of original content creators will provide these questions for their own content. Consequently, it makes sense to turn this into a community project. Everyone should be able to create quiz questions for any resource. That requires a mechanism for avoiding spam and for finding the best questions out of many.

The success of the platform depends on the network effect. The more people use the platform, the more people will create questions for the community, the more useful it becomes for more users. Conversely, the less people use it, the less useful the site will be. Therefore, it is important to reach a critical mass eventually. One way to achieve this is to collaborate with popular content creators. Before reaching out to those, the platform should be stable and scalable. Additionally, it is more likely that creators accept the collaboration, when questions for their content have been created beforehand.

For this to work, enough people have to be motivated to write quiz questions for learning resources. Some might be intrinsically motivated. Preparing quiz questions helps students to learn the subject at hand, that they want to learn in that moment anyway. Others just like to help others learn something. Otherwise there would not be that much free educational content in the first place. Lastly, if a critical mass is reached, people might be motivated when their name is shown next to their question. Although that can be problematic when similar questions are provided by multiple people, or questions are edited later on.

Initially, the service is probably not expensive to run. Especially, when all questions are just text based. Things become more problematic when more data has to be stored and transmitted per question. If the site is successful enough that this becomes a problem, it's probably possible to find one or two companies sponsoring the site in exchange for their logo on the site.

If the platform is successfull, it can be extended in various ways. Support for more types of questions can be added. Furthermore, spaced repetition and topic interleaving can be introduced to achieve even better learning results. Those last two might require the user to login, though.
